---
layout: blog-post
title: Quelques éléments pour le TP JEE avec WILDFLY
place: Rennes, France
categories: [teaching, istic, m2, french]
published: true
---
Hello très chers étudiants,

Pour ce dernier TP de TAA sur la partie JEE, nous allons intégrer notre TP avec le serveur d'application wildfly , nous utiliserons [wildfly version 8.1 final](http://wildfly.org/downloads/).

### Etape 0: Installation de wildfly

1. Get the latest stable version of the WildFly Application Server (8.1.0.Final) from http://wildfly.org/downloads/ (wildfly-8.0.0.Final.zip).
2. Extract the tgz archive to a directory on your computer, e.g. /opt. The path must not contain any spaces. A new directory, e.g. /opt/wildfly-8.1.0.Final/, containing the WildFly files will be created.
3. Use the script ./bin/standalone.sh to start the WildFly server and check the installation. After startup, you should be able to access the web server at http://localhost:9990
4. Add  a user ./bin/add-user.sh
5. After creating a user revisit the Administration Console. http://localhost:9990
6. Go to Manage Deployments and click Add Content to upload hsqldb.jar. Make sure that the deployed file is enabled.
7. Go to Profile -> Connector -> Datasources and click Add. Use the following information to create a datasource:
Name: DefaultDS
JNDI Name: java:/DefaultDS
Choose hsqldb.jar as driver
Connection URL: jdbc:hsqldb:${jboss.server.data.dir}${/}hypersonic${/}localDB;shutdown=true
username: sa
In order to stop the server, press CTRL-C in the console window that was opened during step 3.

You app server is ready. 
<!--more-->


### Etape 1: Jeu avec les exemples. 

Récupérez les exemples fournis [ici] (https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart)

Déployez votre premier bean. 
1. Go to ejb-in-war
2. Deploy the bean 
 
```bash
mvn clean package wildfly:deploy
```

Allez voir la console d'administration


Deployez un bean avec persitence. 
1. Go to quickstart/cmt
2. Adapt the bean
3. Deploy the bean 

```bash
mvn clean package wildfly:deploy
```


### Etape 2: Adaptez votre application pour la déployer sur wildfly. 

Let us go ;)

